+++
title = "Kobo Resources"
date = 2024-12-07
description = "My totally awesome setup for my Kobo Elipsa 2E"

draft = true

[taxonomies]
tags = ["arduino"]
+++

# An E-reader??

As a die-hard fan of physical books, I never understood how other book fans could
be so enthused about e-readers. How could anything capture the magic that is
hefting a thick, new tome in your hands, physically interacting with the enormity
of knowledge yet to be devoured?

I get it now.

Even more than I love to read books, I love to collect them. There is something
so satisfying about having books on practically every topic I'm remotely
interested in. But sitting down and reading them can be a bit challenging in a
world where there are so many projects to do, a toddler demanding constant
attention, and this wonderful, petulant body that needs regular feeding and
sleep.

I loved to read in bed when I was single, but booklights prove a barrier when
sharing a sleeping space with someone. So I ended up on my phone a lot of the
time. With my favorite reading app turned on the darkest, dimmest setting, I could
usually fall asleep while reading PDFs and EPUBs alright. But at the end of the
day (or, more accurately, in the middle of sleepless nights), I  was forced to
admit that the *itty, bitty* bit of light from my phone screen was still keeping
me awake. Sleep was just that much more restful when I didn't look at any sort
of LCD or AMOLED screen beforehand.

So I started looking into ereaders.

I wanted something that would let me read the vast amount of free PDF textbooks
I'd accumulated comfortably. As well as let me read scientific papers (also in
PDF format) as I try to go to sleep. Thus, I wanted something easy to sideload
books onto.

According to my research, that meant the Kindle was not going to be the one for
me.

So that left Kobos and maybe a Boox in the running. The problem was the larger
screen sizes were **expensive**. Like $400-500 expensive, way more than I was
willing to drop on a whim. And I had hesitations about getting a Boox. If it was
really running full Android, what was to stop me from just perusing Reddit for
hours at night, leaving me right back where I started again? No, I wanted a
single-purpose device for reading books.

So that left the Kobo. I looked at the Kobo Elipsa 2E, naturally, so I started
trolling Facebook marketplace for a used one. Eventually I found someone who was
willing to sell me one at a bargain price, and it was life-changing!

# Why I love my e-reader

I still love physical books, but I'll be honest, they haven't seen much use since
my Kobo came on the scene.

It's just enough "screen" that my brain wants to go look at it, so that it's not
a mental battle to put my phone down and read something.


